Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.

1.	Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL? 
  A)	Create B) Update
  C) DeleteD) ALTER 
Ans=(A),(D)

2.	Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL? 
  A) Update B) Delete 
  C) Select D) Drop 
Ans=(A),(B),(C) 

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question. 

3. Full form of SQL is: 		
  A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language 
  C) Simple Query Language D) NONE
Ans=(B) Structured Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
  A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
  C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.
Ans=(B) Data Definition Language
        
5. DML is:
  A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
  C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these
Ans=(A) Data Manipulation Language

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
  A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
  C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them
Ans=(C) Create Table A (B int,C float)

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
  A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
  C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them
Ans=(B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
  A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
  C) Delete D from A D) None of them
Ans=(B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
  A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
  C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int
Ans=(B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it?
  A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
  C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them
Ans=(D) None of them

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly

11.	What is data-warehouse? 
Ans=A Data Warehousing (DW) is process for collecting and managing data from varied sources to provide 
      meaningful business insights. A Data warehouse is typically used to connect and analyze business 
      data from heterogeneous sources. The data warehouse is the core of the BI system which is built for data analysis and reporting.

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
Ans=Online transaction processing (OLTP) captures, stores, and processes data from transactions in real time.
    Online analytical processing (OLAP) uses complex queries to analyze aggregated historical data from OLTP systems.
    
13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
Ans=There are three prominent data warehouse characteristics:
    •	Integrated: The way data is extracted and transformed is uniform, regardless of the original source.
    •	Time-variant: Data is organized via time-periods (weekly, monthly, annually, etc.).
    •	Non-volatile: A data warehouse is not updated in real-time. It is periodically updated via the uploading of data, protecting it from the influence of momentary change.

14. What is Star-Schema??
Ans=The star schema architecture is the simplest data warehouse schema. It is called a star schema because the diagram resembles a star, with points radiating from a centre.
    The centre of the star consists of fact table and the points of the star are the dimension tables.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
Ans=ETL is short for extract, transform, load, three database functions that are combined into one tool to pull data out of one database and place it into another database. 
    Extract is the process of reading data from a database.













